Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully
addressing all esteemed fellow practitioners, today I, Yen, am here to
answer your question about how to dismantle a
shrine. Respectfully, Ms.
Yen, my mother opened a shrine, but
when she became seriously ill, my siblings and I were afraid we wouldn't be able to continue
worshipping, so we invited the same master who had come before she
opened the shrine. After
my mother passed away, my family also invited
that master to perform a ceremony. Since then, my family has experienced
many problems: discord among siblings, business
losses. Some people say it's because the
spirits of the deceased still linger after the dismantling, causing our
family to suffer. I researched this
online and found many things you've discussed.
I hope you can give my family a
solution. I would like to express my gratitude to
you. Respectfully, esteemed fellow practitioners, this is
something many people are afraid to dismantle after setting up a shrine
because they fear something bad might
happen. But in reality,
things do happen during worship. It's
not just after dismantling;
people even threaten that
if you dismantle it, you'll see this and that.
Yen went on a series of questions...  The Buddhist temple in
Hung Yen, near the North Chinese community, is a whole
series of temples and shrines. Many people have
opened temples and shrines there, and now they've all been liberated and
converted to Buddhism. After the case of Mrs. Kieu,
she recovered from her madness and her
shrine was successfully liberated. After the
monk who opened the temple and performed the ritual,
those spirits were
invited there because of a karmic connection. Whether
to drive them away or not is their right,
because we invite them, not expel them.
We keep calling them to pray and worship them
daily; it's not easy to just drive them away. So,
in Buddhist practice,
after the monk liberates the
shrine, we make vows and
offer food to these spirits, making offerings and
vows. We chant the Ksitigarbha Sutra and other
sutras for offering to spirits, the Mahayana and
Theravada sutras related
to spirits. Then we go to the temple and
dedicate the merit of the offerings to
the spirits so that they may receive
blessings, practice, and attain liberation.
They will then not stay here and disturb
our home. Why do they disturb us?  Because they
are from the realm of suffering, it's normal for them to bother us.
There are many
aspects of the Dharma that Yen has already
discussed. You
can find more information on YouTube. What
Yen will answer today
is about the
spirits and ghosts that, when worshipped at temples,
claim to be gods or saints. For those,
you should
make offerings to the temple to pray for their liberation. You
should also make offerings and dedicate the
blessings to the spirits so they
can gain merit and escape suffering.
This is called liberation, and they
won't bother you anymore. According to Buddhist scriptures, the Sutra of Offerings,
if you
receive offerings and develop a compassionate heart, then the spirits that
are bothering you should make offerings and
dedicate the blessings to them so they can be
liberated, practice Buddhism, and
become benevolent spirits. These benevolent spirits
will then bless your family,
transforming evil into good, and good into
helping you. It's very
beneficial!
[Music]
[music]